you how are you it's been a week that
Hamas received a proposal Qatar the key
mediator hopes could lead to a new deal
that may end the war in Gaza free
Israeli captives and allow more Aid into
the strip qatar's prime minister
Minister of Foreign Affairs is confident
an agreement is Within
Reach we have received a reply from
Hamas on the general framework of the
agreement regarding the captives the
reply includes some comments but in
general it is positive however given the
sensitivity of the issue we will not go
into details we are optimistic and we
have delivered the response to the
Israeli
party nice to see you US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin remains cautious
who will have to convince the Israelis
to accept hamas's
terms but the Us official refrained from
talking about a ceasefire referring
instead to a pause
we're also determined to use any pause
to continue to pave a diplomatic path
forward to a just and Lasting peace and
security for the region that is the best
way the best way to ensure that October
7th and the tragic loss of life by
Israelis and
Palestinians is not
repeated Hamas which controls Gaza says
it has responded positively to The
Negotiator
Qatar and Egypt but insists the deal
must result in a permanent
ceasefire the proposal for a possible
agreement was presented to the leader of
hamas's political Bureau is Han in Doha
but it's the group's leader in Gaza
Yahya sinoa along with alasan brigade's
Commander Muhammad daif who have the
ultimate say over any possible
deal by pushing for an agreement on Gaza
the US officials are keeping their eyes
on the broader goal convincing Saudi
Arabia the most powerful country in the
region to establish ties with Israel the
Crown Prince
reiterated Saudi Arabia's strong
interest in pursuing that uh but he also
made clear what uh he had said uh to me
before uh which is that in order to do
that uh two things are
required um an end to the conflict in
Gaz
and a clear credible time bound path to
the establishment of a Palestinian
state but many remain skeptical they
accuse the US of siding with Israel Iran
and its allies warn if the war in Gaza
continues the Middle East risks being
mared by
instability Hashim Al
jaaz
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al
jazer